+++
date = "2016-10-20T09:05:04+02:01"
description = "TBC"
taxonomies = "TBC"
title = "Large-scale Predictive Modelling in Drug Discovery"
+++

This project aims at developing computational methods, tools and
predictive models to aid the drug discovery process on large data sets.
Methods include ligand-based and structure-based methods such as QSAR
(machine learning) and docking, with applications including prediction
of drug safety, toxicology, interactions, target profiles and secondary
pharmacology. In order to analyze large-scale data we use
high-performance computing, cloud computing resources, and data
analytics platforms such as Apache Hadoop and Apache Spark. We also use
and develop scientific workflow systems such as Luigi and BPipe to
automate and streamline analysis. The work is carried out in
collaboration with AstraZeneca R&D, Maastricht University NL, and
Karolinska Institutet. We aim at making models and tools available from
the Bioclipse workbench. We are also founding partners of the OpenTox
association (www.opentox.org) and associated partner with the consortia
OpenPhacts (www.openphacts.org) and e-nanomapper
(http://www.enanomapper.net).

![](/img/reactive-modeling.png)
<div class="normal-text">

**Figure:**Â Data is extracted from various data sources, and we use high
performance computing, cloud computing, workflows and big data
frameworks to train predictive models which are published in the
Bioclipse workbench for easy and user-friendly access with graphical
interpretations.
